Hello everyone and welcome to the Python installation and setup lecture for this course.
We're going to be installing Python using the Anaconda's distribution and all that means is that distribution
is just a version of Python also comes prepackaged with additional useful libraries.
Now the Anaconda distribution is actually quite large.
So we're going to be leaving the full download of it as optional.
I'll show you the full download site.
You can go ahead and just click on the graphical installer if you want but we're going to be showing
you also how to install what's known as mini Khanda which is just a smaller version of Anaconda without
so many of the additional packages that way if you don't have a lot of space on your computer you can
just download that again if you already have anaconda or python in your computer.
Feel free to just skip this installation lecture.
But make sure to watch towards the end where we show how to set up and configure atom to have a terminal.
OK let's get started by going to Google in our browser.
All right.
Here I am in my browser so go to Google dot com and then type in Python Anaconda.
Hit enter and the very first link should be continue on iOS slashed downloads page.
Click on that and this will take you to continue on the IO slash downloads.
And here you'll see download Anaconda now and it has the download links for Windows Mac and Linux.
If you scroll down here or just click on these links it will automatically take you here.
But let me zoom in a little bit so we can see this clearly.
Here are the download links for Anaconda which is the python distribution for Windows OSX for Mac and
Linux.
Now for this course we will be using Python 3.6 and we're basically going to require you to use Python
3.6 because Django and future versions is going to be dropping support for Python too.
It's one of the first main libraries to just be completely dropping support for Python too.
They're really pushing towards a future here.
So because of that we will be using Python 3 for this version of the course.
Now Python 3 in Python 2 are extremely similar.
And I will mention some things that recoat along through the course some key differences between them.
But again they're very similar.
But for our future proofing of course we're going to be using Python 3.
Now if you're on Windows all you have to do is download this installer member to choose the correct
64 bit or 32 bit installer and then just double click on the executable file and follow the instructions
on the screen.
If you're on a Mac OS you can come here.
Click on the graphical installer for Python 3.6 and then download it double click on the dot PKC file.
Follow the instructions there.
If you're on a Linux computer it's also very simple.
You just download the installer and then in your terminal you type in this command right here.
BASH And then the actual SH file that you downloaded.
OK so those are the full versions of Anaconda and the python distribution.
These are essentially the easiest to install.
So you just download and follow the instructions but you'll notice that they're quite large.
They're about 422 megabytes each.
If you scroll up a little bit you should see a link here that says try many Khanda and that basically
saves disk space or just download time.
Click on that link.
Many Khanda and it will take you to this page.
Where has the installations for or the downloads for Mini-Con for Windows Mac OS and Linux.
Now if you're on Windows it has an executable installer.
So again all you have to do is click on that and then follow the instructions for Mac OS and Linux.
They're both bash installers.
Which means those are command line installers.
If you don't know how to do those or use those.
All you have to do is click here on the quick install page for installation instructions and this has
the full installation instructions.
If you are on Windows all you have to do is essentially double click that executable file that you download
and follow the instructions on the screen.
If you're on Mac OS and haven't actually done a command line install It's actually also really simple.
All you have to do is go to your browser download the mini installer and then you will end up downloading
this sh file.
Let me zoom in a little bit here so we can see clearly.
So you will download this sh file and then what you will do is in your terminal window and you can just
do a spotlight search for the word terminal and it will bring it up directly into your terminal wherever
you saved this sh file.
Put it there and then we going to do is say bash and then type in right here.
Whatever file you downloaded and it may not look exactly like this.
Here it says latest.
But whatever your file is called Just type it there then you just close reopen your terminal window
for the changes to take effect.
Sometimes you may need to restart your computer for the changes take effect but usually just restarting
your terminal window will make that happen and the tester installation you just enter the command list.
And if you're on Linux I assume you've probably done this before but all you do is the exact same thing
for Mac bash and then the SH file.
All right if you have any questions on the installation or are having trouble with it.
Feel free to post the Q&A forums.
A lot of times some students on older operating systems will have issues with an installation.
Maybe you're on Windows 7.
You haven't quite caught up there yet.
Or maybe you're confused whether you have a 32 bit or 64 bit computer.
Any confusion any questions feel free to post the Kewney forums.
I'm always happy to help you out and get Python an anaconda working on your computer.
OK now let's hop over to the Adam text editor to show you how you can install a plugin which allows
you to have a terminal or command line prompt.
Right in Adam I'm going to hop over to Adam now.
OK here I am at the Adam text editor.
You may have noticed that as I've been using the Adam text editor I have a little plus sign here and
if I click on that plus sign it gives me a terminal where I can type python and then actually start
using Python command prompt directly at my terminal here.
So let's quit out of that.
Well we're going to be doing is showing you how you can install a terminal install some plug ins that
will make work in Python with Adam a lot easier.
So the welcome Guy.
What you can do is click here on install a package and then open installer.
If you can't find this Wolken guide page then all you have to do is click here file.
Go to settings which is control comma or command comma and then click here where it says install and
what you can do.
Adam is search for packages that other people have created or that it has created that allow you to
add your really useful tools for Adam.
The first thing you want to do is actually get that terminal.
So type terminal enter in it will search for packages for terminal and the terminal package we're going
to be using for this course.
It's called platforming.
Dash idealy dash terminal so what you will do is you will click the install button for that and then
you may need to refresh or restart Adam for the effects to take place.
So you will have a little blue button there.
Go ahead and install it.
They'll download it from the internet and directly install it.
So that's the terminal package you're using.
But for me dash ID dash terminal.
Once you've installed that you should be able to click on a plus sign here and then open up a new terminal.
The next thing we're going to be doing is searching for a python in packages and we want a Python package
or Python plugin excuse me that actually helps you autocomplete.
So there is already built in Python language support in Adam.
You should already have something that looks like this downloaded but I also like the autocomplete dash
Python package which helps you autocomplete variables methods and functions.
Feel free to install that as well.
And if you really want to explore the power of Adam package's search for Django.
And a lot of people have made other useful plugins and packages for Django.
I've downloaded Adam dasht Jingo and it helps you just build jingle apps faster of Python.
That's not required but you can go ahead and explore.
There's also templates language Adam support a lot.
A lot of packages here and plug ins that you can explore.
All right.
So if you are not on a Windows computer you can feel free to skip to the next lecture.
But if you are a Windows computer I want to quickly show you how you can change what command prompt
or terminal or what power shell your actual platform will dash ID is using.
So initially by default this new terminal will use something called Power Shell in Windows.
But we want it to use is the command prompt.
So we need to change the settings for that under here in search packages begin to search for terminal
enter and you should eventually see the platform the dash ID terminal that you installed.
Click on settings here.
Once you've installed it and it will take you to the settings page.
Scroll down on the settings page and then what we're looking for is this shell override.
So we want to override the default shell instance to launch.
Now what you should do is on your computer you need to find the M.D executable file and almost always
it's under the system 32 folder.
And in fact you should be able to just type this directly into these shell overon and then have it set
up.
So take your time pause the screen if you need it but set the shell override to be c..
Windows system 32 CMD d e x e.
And that will change the terminal for being power shell to being the command prompt.
The reason we do that is because sometimes the Conda virtual environment won't work.
A power shell and we'll be showing you how to use that in a subsequent lecture during the jingoes section
of the course.
So this really won't affect you right now for the python level on a python level 2 but when we start
talking about Django it will affect it.
OK.
So I just wanted to quickly note that for Windows users.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.
Again any questions feel free to post the Q&A forums and I'm always happy to help you out.
I'll see you at the next lecture.